.Dd September 09, 2014
.Dt CLOGGER 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm clogger
.Nd log input to a chatroom
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl DVfhv
.Op Fl c Ar file
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Fl r Ar room
.Op Ar message ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
writes input to the specified chat room(s).
.Sh OPTIONS
.Nm
supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width message_
.It Fl D
Run in debug mode.
No messages will actually be sent to the chat service.
.It Fl V
Print version information and exit.
.It Fl c Ar file
Read configuration from this file.
.It Fl f
Continously read from stdin and post each line.
.It Fl h
Print a short usage statement and exit.
.It Fl r Ar room
Write the given message to this room.
Can be specified multiple times.
.It Fl t Ar type
Clog the chat system of the given type.
Can be one of 'campfire' or 'hipchat'.
.It Fl v
Be verbose.
Can be specified multiple times.
.It message
The message to send to the given room(s); if not specified, read input
from stdin.
.El
.Sh DETAILS
.Nm
writes the given message to the specified chat room(s).
(Currently supported chat services are Campfire and HipChat.)
It prefixes any messages with the username of the invoking user as well as
the (short) hostname on which it is running.
If
.Nm
was invoked via
.Xr sudo 8 ,
then it also prefixes the string with the username derived from the
SUDO_UID environment variable.
.Pp
If the input consists of multiple lines, then
.Nm
delivers the input as a pasted message.
.Pp
If the
.Fl f
flag was specified, then
.Nm
will continously read one line at a time from stdin and post it to the
given room(s).
This is conceptually similar to the use of the same flag for the
.Xr tail 1
command.
Using this option may cause
.Nm
to run into API limitations if there is a lot of (possibly continous)
input.
.Sh CONFIGURATION
By default,
.Nm
reads its configuration from the file
.Ar /etc/clogger.conf .
In this file, you can specify the following keyword=value pairs:
.Bl -tag -width campfire_host_
.It campfire_token
The API access token used to authenticate to Campfire, if any.
.It campfire_host
The hostname for Campfire API access, if any.
.It chat_type
The type of chat service to use.
Can be one of 'campfire' or 'hipchat'.
.It hipchat_host
The hostname for HipChat API access, if any.
.It hipchat_token
The API access token used to authenticate to HipChat, if any.
.It proxy_url
The URL of the HTTP proxy to use, if any.
.It proxy_user
The username to authenticate to the HTTP proxy, if any.
.It proxy_pass
The password to authenticate to the HTTP proxy, if any.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To say "Good news, everybody!" to room 1234:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
echo "Good news, everybody!" | clogger -r 1234
.Ed
.Pp
To paste the contents of the file 'config.xml' to the rooms 1234 and
56789:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
clogger -r 1234 -r 56789 <config.xml
.Ed
.Pp
To periodically update the room 1234 with the latest ssh failures:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
sudo tail -f /var/log/auth.log |                   \\
        egrep "(Invalid user|Failed publickey)" |  \\
        clogger -f -r 1234
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr logger 1 ,
.Xr https://github.com/37signals/campfire-api
.Xr https://www.hipchat.com/docs/api
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@twitter.com
in November 2013.
